actions including today's 75 basis point
cut I'm joined now by Scott Anderson
he's a senior economist at Wells Fargo
Minneapolis and Peter Schiff the
president of euro pacific capital
gentlemen i welcome you both and Peter
I'm going directly to you because
clearly when you see a 420 point gain in
the Dow it's pretty obvious what
investors are saying thumbs up Thank You
Ben Bernanke you don't think the feds on
the right track why well not at all
first of all we're in a bear market and
when you're in a bear market you get
pretty spectacular rallies we've had a
lot of these big rallies and then you
know within a few weeks we're back at
new lows again but you know the Fed is
creating inflation it's not fighting
inflation the feds seize inflation as
the way to solve these problems it wants
to inflate our way out of the problems
but that's how we got into this mess the
Fed did the same thing in reaction to
the bursting of the Nasdaq bubble that
it blew up it blew up the housing bubble
to postpone the pain of that recession
it created all these problems the
solution is not more debt it's not to
encourage Americans to go out and buy
more things that they can't afford what
we need is more savings in this country
more production we need sound money and
we need much higher interest rates and
if that means in the short run we suffer
a severe recession that's what's going
to have to happen because what they're
doing now is going to be much worse down
the line as a result of what Ben
Bernanke is doing so Scott Anderson
tough love that's what Peter's shift
says we need and again you know
something we all know that if you try to
avoid painful situations in life you
often do just make it worse in the long
run what's wrong with what with what
Peter is saying well you know Bernanke
is a student of the Great Depression and
financial panics and crises and what we
learned from those those past crises is
that the Fed needs to be as
accommodative as possible to to unstick
the credit markets and get the banks
lending again the best way to do that is
for the Fed to continue to cut rates to
make it more profitable for banks to
start lending again and offset some of
the concerns the banks have about rising
defaults and foreclosures so you know
holding line on interest rates would be
absolutely the wrong
thing for the Fed to do at this point
yet no unfortunately maybe Ben Bernanke
studied history and studied the
depression but he learned nothing from
it what he should do is look at the
history of Argentina look at what's
happening in Zimbabwe right now because
those are the type of monetary policies
that he's pursuing and we have something
far worse in our future if we do not
veer from this course but what well I
agree that the go ahead go ahead dive in
yeah well I agree that the Fed needs to
be seeing less of reacting to the
markets they need to show some
leadership some backbone and that's why
I think the markets applauded what the
Fed did today the Fed didn't give the
market exactly what they were looking
for instead they gave a little bit less
than that so subtly reasserting
themselves in the marketplace that you
know we're going to use other methods
not just our blunt instrument of Fed
rate cuts that potentially are
inflationary down the road but we're
also going to use our temporary auction
facility and our new lending facilities
to get at the more directly at some of
the problems oh all they did is get
everybody to expect a 100 basis point
rate hike so now they can cut by 75
basis points and pretend they're hawkish
this is ridiculous you know the dollar
is going to continue to fall they are
creating inflation and you know again
this is the problem you know there are
economy where are not we're not
suffering from a lack of consumer
spending we have too much consumer
spending we need savings in order to
encourage savings you need high real
interest stories have a negative rate of
concern isn't it a long term concern
we've seen retail sales slowed down and
in fact we were showing a chart while
you were speaking showing the
year-over-year consumer price inflation
rate which is gradually come down the
last consumer price reports show the
monthly CPI flat and first of all that
the CPI is it doesn't represent what's
really going on with prices that's the
government's version if stations
comprises a version that we're good as
our yardstick regardless of whether you
believe it well uh well well I'm
marketing obviously I'm not going to use
a flawed method of measuring prices but
we don't need more consumer spending we
need a lot less consumer spending the
problem is we borrowed all this money
from them from abroad we owe the world's
trillions of dollars we didn't borrow to
invest we didn't borrow to build
factories we borrowed it
and now we can't pay it back the dollar
is in freefall we need to radically
change the way we we've been running our
economy we need to produce things again
we need smaller less expensive
government we need sound money we can't
just keep encouraging reckless borrowing
because that's how we got into this mess
and we're not going to solve the
problems of inflation by creating
additional inflation Scotty you know
when you see gold allege thousand
dollars an ounce it does make it kind of
nervous doesn't it well it's true that
this isn't really consistent with a
deflationary spiral but I point out in
1991 we also were seeing accelerating
inflation when we went into recession
but as growth slowed we did see a
moderation inflation and the Fed is
actually historically been pretty good
forecast or inflation so I I'd go with
the feds forecast on inflation that this
is a demand-driven as the economy slows
we're going to see some moderation there
now I'd go I'd go with gold I wouldn't
trust the government know I've been
buying gold I've been encouraging my
clients to invest in gold and foreign
assets and commodities for about eight
years because I understood how much
inflation the government was creating
you know the government doesn't want
people to understand how much inflation
they're creating so they hope that
you'll buy into these folks yeah you
seem to be totally study stepping a big
issue in Scott maybe you should address
this which is the housing market home
prices are still falling we got another
big drop in single-family home
construction today foreclosures are
rising and this seems to be the linchpin
that is crumbling as the economy Scott
isn't that isn't that the thing that is
that the Fed is addressing or trying to
be our yeah we're very much focused on
that as is the Fed and we've already
dropped in terms of national home prices
more than we ever dropped since the
Great Depression so our models around
this aren't very good but it's we
certainly know the direction that things
are headed we're seeing a lot of wealth
destruction from housing and the stock
market since the beginning a year and
that's going to weigh on consumer
spending and the Fed needs to react to
that but home prices are going to fall a
lot more you know this was all phony
wealth it was a bubble that the Fed
inflated and prices are going to come
down across the board but you know the
cost of homeownership even though home
prices are falling the cost of buying a
home with higher down payments hi
mortgage payments higher taxes higher
maintenance higher depreciation home
ownership costs are going up along with
the cost of food along with the cost of
energy okay Peter Schiff thank you
you've certainly eloquent made the case
for the rising inflation and Scot
Anderson
you